---
layout: post
comments: true
title: "Seeing the World in Triangles"
excerpt: "Three is a magic number."
date:   2023-08-07 08:00:00
mathjax: false
---

This pattern somewhat always amazed me, as if anything can be decomposed into three components. As if the vector space of universe definitions is R^3.

What I often find myself doing when trying to understand something, is decomposing it into its three most basic things. This number has a mysterious embedding.

### Examples:

- Proportional, Integral, and Derivative (PID) controller that’s very popular and works very well with linear systems.
- RGB dimensions where three colors can represent any other color.
- Attention mechanism of Transformers is made up of three fundamental components: Key, Value, and Query. (This makes me very bullish that in fact, attention is all we need for AGI)
- GPS uses three points to triangulate precise locations.
- Human Body can be described as a combination of muscular, skeletal, and nervous systems.
- Boolean logic consists of three basic operations AND, OR, and NOT.
- The universe is made up of three types of subatomic particles: Protons, Neutrons, and Electrons.
- Projects can be evaluated based on three constraints: Scope, Time, and Cost.
- Many economic models are based on three agents: Firms, Households, and Government.
- The structure of DNA consists of three components: Phosphate group, Sugar group, and a Nitrogenous base. Also, the genetic code is based on triplets of nucleotides (codons).